# Peakfeatures_graphs-FINAL.Rmd

Simple code to visualise differences in avg peak width and area covered under peaks for different DNA-binding proteins (Bacterial NAPs vs TFs vs Halophilic histones vs Halophilic TFs). The input to this is Table S3 of the paper (also uploaded here). Information within this table was obtained from peak lists generated by Mosaics (as shown in the Peakcalling subfolder), with elementary processing in order to get peak width and total bases covered done within Excel. The number of bases covered was then expressed as a percentage of the total size of the genome to get a comparable number of coverage across species. This code uses simple ggplot2 commands to generate graphs from this data.

Input dependency: TableS3_peakcharacteristics.xlsx

Library depepdency: ggplot2_3.3.5 readxl_1.3.1

# Peaksbindinglocations_2types-Final.Rmd:

Takes a peak list and finds the centre of each peak. Then detrermines if this centre lies within a coding region (as determined by NCBI protein table, saved as excel file), or not.

Library dependencies:
installr, readxl, openxlsx

# Peaklocation_newplot.Rmd

Simple code that generates bar plots from information about percentage of genes in promoter region.

That information is generated from the code above (Peakbindinglocations_2types-Final.Rmd) for multiple proteins (including HstA, HpyA, other halophilic TFs, and FNR, an E coli TF). The output is stored in Mosaicslists_2types_output.xlsx. Relative enrichment of these peaks in promoter regions was calculated using a hypergeomtric test (results in Table S5 of the paper). These p-values were also added to Peaklocations.xlsx. Finally, the code manually takes in the percentage of the relevant genome that is intergenic.

Library dependencies:

forcats_0.5.1 ggplot2_3.3.5 readxl_1.3.1
